why am I the way that I am it's a good
question I think everybody should ask
themselves questions like that every
once in a while especially since you
know it's the New Year time it's it's
good to assess goals and whatnot but to
answer that question for myself there
are many Fitness influencers and tons of
them are focused on lifting weights for
strength lifting weights for muscle
growth or no lifting weights and they
only lift their body weight for either
muscle growth or strength but there are
very very
few and I don't know of any that are
approaching it the way that I do that
are solely focused or at least the main
goal of theirs is
flexibility so I kind of want to show
you what that looks like what does it
look like to solely focus on flexibility
or to use flexibility as the main goal
and everything else just helps you get
toward
that so I'm going to go on a walk I'm
going to go to the park you can tag
along and I will show you what it's like
to work solely on flexibility the goal
for today is not necessarily to do
anything crazy but I do want to get to
all of my splits I can already do my
front splits cold which is the one leg
in front one leg and back I can do that
cold without a warm up but the middle
splits I've kind of slacked off on a
little bit so my goal for today is to
see if I can get to my middle splits
with a considerable amount of warming up
and stretching to assist me up to that
point now I'm not going to allow myself
to get injured so I'm not going to be
pushing too my limit limit but I will be
pushing myself pretty hard but I'm used
to doing that and my body is adapted to
that because I've done it for so long uh
but I don't recommend you go right into
pushing your body to the MX Max um but
yeah we're going to go on a walk to the
park so come along all right we are
almost to the park but uh I figured I
might as well talk to you on the way one
of the bigger mistakes that people make
when it comes to flexibility is that um
they don't focus on volume so what
they'll do is they'll either go to a
yoga class once a week or they'll
stretch a couple times a week or
whatever uh and what ends up happening
is they'll focus on their hamstrings
then they'll do some Hip Flex work then
they'll work on their back a little bit
maybe some shoulders if they're really
ambitious and wow they'll start to feel
loose flexible that's great and
temporarily it does but um you're not
going to make any real progress because
flexibility is actually about volume
like I was saying um it's like a
bodybuilder a bodybuilder doesn't just
go to the gym and do one set of bicep
curls to grow their bicep no what they
actually end up doing is they'll do
their setup bicep curls at a very high
intensity usually close to failure and
what ends up happening is they'll rest
for a little bit and then they'll do
even more so it's the same thing with
stretching you can't just do your one
little stretch and then be done with it
you actually have to do your stretch you
have to rest and then you got to do it
again and there's a couple different
ways you can look at volume like
transport yourself back to high school
math what is volume volume is a shape
and it is the space inside of that shape
so if you think about the horizontal
axis as the amount of reps you're doing
or in this case for flexibility the
amount of seconds you're holding and the
vertical axis would be the amount of
times you do that per week or the amount
of sets so your goal is Def fill up the
entire shape the jug of volume with as
much stuff as you can with as many
seconds held so you want to fill up that
horizontal axis and as many sets as you
can do the vertical axis um but you
don't want that jug to overflow for a
bodybuilder what that would look like is
if you're doing 30 sets of bicep curls a
week something crazy for some people
their biceps might grow but for a lot of
people their biceps are not going to
grow because your body's going to all so
many resources toward
recovery that you just don't grow same
thing with flexibility
except they don't actually know what the
upper limits are because nobody cares
except David apparently but we do know
the lower limit or at least close to it
if you were to do 10 sets that is 10
full sets of 30 seconds that equals 5
minutes a
week and and that is the minimum if you
actually do 5 minutes a week
per muscle they will progress they know
that so you want to do at least that all
right it was a mile and a half to walk
here so I'm already pretty warm so
you're not going to see my cold
flexibility but as promised front split
just like so and there goes my
shoes and other front split just like so
so a warmup doesn't have to be very
complicated most of my my warmup is
already done because I got the blood
flowing to my legs just by doing that
walk there but the stuff that's missing
is the specific stuff and since I really
want to get to my middle splits today
I'm going to have to work on these inner
thighs quite a bit so I think the first
exercise I'm going to do really just get
the blood flow into the area is going to
be uh coac switches I believe is what
they're called so it's it's a coac squat
instead of coming all the way back back
up I'm just going to switch directly to
the other side but you'll see it in a
second so here we
go nice low squat oh let me feel that
first and my
switches yeah they're feeling
tight
a lot of times when you're training
flexibility you can kind of just play
around with the movements a little bit
to get a little bit of extra movement in
the joint you're working on cuz I really
feel like that helps a little
bit
okay it already feels a little bit
better yeah now I'm going to move
directly on to to the butterfly which
for many people would be like a main
stretch that you would actually focus on
but for me it's going to be more of just
a warmup because it doesn't really
stretch a lot but if I elevate my pelvis
like this and
actually let my body weight push into my
ankles and I can even bounce a little
bit to get deeper I feel that stretch a
little bit deeper into my groin which uh
is where I feel it the most when I do a
middle split so um that helps a lot
actually so I'm just going to hold this
for a little
bit man A lot of times when you're
holding these
stretches after your first 15 seconds or
so you really start to just sink into
that stretch cuz your stretch reflex
kind of starts to relax a little
bit
oh that feels
good yeah see a lot of times I find
myself just naturally doing random stuff
like that like I didn't even really
notice it but my hamstrings feel a
little bit tight probably just cuz of
the walk but um I might as well do some
elephant walks to focus in on
that and I'm really just focusing mostly
on blood flow I'm not really doing any
intense stretches at least not for me
right now cuz the goal is just to get as
warm as
possible so that I can prepare my body
for the tortures that lay
[Applause]
ahead oh that feels good oh
yeah you know what might as well get
some split squats in it's always good to
focus in on that hip flexor every once
in a while a lot of people like to add
weight to this stretch but I
honestly I don't really need the weight
I'm sure the weight could help me get
stronger in my quad if I wanted to but
my focus is actually lengthening through
the ABS through the hip flexor and even
through that quad muscle called your
rectus Fus or Rec fem for
short as you can see I'm not really
focused too much on how many reps I'm
kind of just going by feeling
sometimes I like to sit in it a little
bit I just want them both to feel very
similar this is a warm-up so it doesn't
have to be quite so serious as an actual
working set would
be all right so I'm feeling actually
really warm now I think I'm ready to get
uh straight into straight into the the
work
so the first exercise that I'm going to
do it's going to be an active exercise
it'll be the standing pancake but I'm
going to add a good morning to it which
means I'm just going to do a hip hinge
like so and then lift myself back up
while I'm in a standing pancake so I I
guess I should explain what a pancake is
this is a pancake right here and you
lower yourself down to the ground that's
a pretty good pancake a standing one is
when your pelvis is off of the ground
and then I'm going to add a good morning
into it using My Own Strength I'm going
to start higher and I'm going to slowly
spread my legs a little bit more and
more and more see how far down I can go
without
compromising form or feeling any pain so
for me this is not quite so wide I guess
this is pretty wide but it doesn't
matter here we
go this is a great stretch it combines
your hamstrings and your
adductors all together into this just
great
exercise sink a little
[Music]
deeper I'm going to go a little deeper
maybe get two more reps in
okay that was pretty close to Max effort
I used to be able to
go little bit further and I could do
many more reps than that but like I said
kind of lost focus on the middle splits
a little bit
so I'm going to rest for a little
bit and then I think we'll move on
to you know we we already did a standing
pancake we might as well just go
straight to the passive pancake but
we're going to turn
it as far into a straddle as we possibly
can so I'm going to do that after I
rest you don't want to rest too much in
between these stretches so I'm about
ready I stretched I rested sorry for
about minute and a half or so the main
thing with the with resting is you you
don't want your body to cool down you
still want to feel quite warm so here's
my wide pancake or my straddle I'm just
going to lower my chest down and my
belly down toward the ground I'm going
to hold this for around 30 seconds or so
oh
goodness
[Applause]
oh about
halfway four three two one oh goodness
gracious
ah yeah I have not done that in a
while yeah something with these pancakes
is just it it crosses over really really
well to to actually holding a middle
split a lot of people don't realize this
but your middle split isn't just your
inner thighs it's also quite a bit of
your hamstrings even your hip flexors
and quads get involved as well
too you kind of got to think of it this
way your your your femur is right here
and it goes it basically plugs right
into your your pelvis there like at an
angle like this and it rotates around
just like so so every single muscle that
is attached down here and goes somewhere
around your hip it restricts the
movement of your hip or generates
movement from your hip but in this case
it restricts that movement so you kind
of want all of it to be flexible but
yeah let's hit it
again figured I might as well do a
little bit of a different angle for you
as well got my
straddle sink
down
hold ah a lot of times people like to
tell you to focus on deep breathing they
say it helps you get deeper into the
stretch which maybe psychologically it
does well actually that there are it's
called a physiological side when you
inhale twice and you exhale uh Andrew
huberman talks about it quite a bit but
that quite literally relaxes you and
lowers your heart rate and I I would
assume that that would help but what
what helps me most when I focus on my
breathing is it really gets my mind off
of the actual stretch
so hold it for a little bit longer I
wasn't really
in oh and up
okay oh oh man getting out of a stretch
like that is always
difficult woo oh my
goodness all right well that's the inner
thighs and the hamstrings pretty
cooked uh but you just for the fun of it
I might as well hold a front split on
each side or get close to it I might
actually do slightly off of a front
split haven't decided yet well let's
just see how I feel I'm going to go into
a front split on both sides and then
we'll start testing my middle splits and
we'll see how close we can get to it all
right oh yeah a little
tight after working on that that pancake
sometimes you get a little bit tighter
all right here we
go
okay I'm about halfway through the
stretch
okay oh I actually haven't done a set of
front splits like that in a long time I
usually just get into it really quick
for a video and then get out of it and
it feels fine when you do it for that
for that short but when you hold it for
a much longer time it's a little bit
more difficult I'm going do the other
side and give you a
slightly different angle oh yeah every
time I work on my middle splits the
front splits gets a little bit harder
after all right here we
[Applause]
go
halfway
through oh and that's it oh
goodness
oh oh yeah that's actually gonna help a
lot for the when I test the middle split
here I really needed
that oh you know I'm gonna do a another
set on each side I think that'll
actually assist me quite a bit I don't
realize how
uh how my hip flexors felt today they
feel not necessarily stiff but it's kind
of like uh I don't really know how to
describe it actually it's it's just you
might as well you might as well just
call it stiffness I guess oky
dokie slightly different
angle here we
go oh my foot is cramping ah there we go
halfway
okay other side oh man my foot started
cramping okay here we go
ah halfway through
oh oh my goodness gracious me oh my oh
me oh my that was much easier the second
time but still very very
difficult man one of these days I'll
start working on my overs splits maybe
maybe I'll do that this year I'm still
trying to figure out what my what my
goals for the the year are but uh I'm at
the point where the front split second
set in it it gets much easier I'm not
going to do a third set today but if I
did I can imagine it would feel much
much easier so yeah all right well let's
work on that middle split see where
we're at actually I changed my mind
before I work on my middle split I'm
going to do a little bit more of a
pigeon sort of stretch for the glutes
first uh I feel like it's just a good
idea to get everything involved first so
this is what a pigeon stretch
is I'm going to be leaning forward
because I already stretched my hip
flexors I don't really need to worry
about that I'm mostly focused on the
outside of the hip the glutes here so
here we
go halfway through
[Music]
oh that is so much easier than those
other stretches that involve all those
other
muscles all right other side here we
go this side is definitely
tighter
and that's the halfway
mark okay 15 all right since I'm not
really uh focusing on improving my
pigeon flexibility it's already really
good not going to do more sets but that
I think that really is going to help me
with my mil splits having that warmed up
and flexify if you will for at least
temporarily so all right let's get into
it middle
splits all right so when I get into my
middle splits I like to put my hands on
the
ground I like
to dig my heels in and I point my toes
up to the sky first it really just helps
me externally rotate my hips to avoid
any
impingement here we
go kind of shim myself down till I feel
that good
stretch all right this is where I'm at
right now I'm going to hold this for 30
seconds here we
go
[Applause]
oh that's roughly 30 seconds I'll shift
back to my
pancake and pull myself out of it oh
[Applause]
man that was
crazy that was really funny actually my
uh my watch here has a little dial and
if you hold on it like this it activates
Siri and uh Siri was listening to me and
started a 30 second timer so um now I
know that my 30 seconds was 2 seconds
faster than an actual 30 seconds unless
the timer started 2 seconds after I
started counting in my head interesting
good to
know I think we can go a little bit
deeper so uh let's try again going to
give you the front angle Le I think it's
going to be
easier being closer to
Barefoot right here we
go oh
yeah all right I'm going to
hold this for 30 seconds here we
go
10 more
seconds I'm back oh
goodness
oh
man that was
intense sometimes it helps to just do
any random old movement after you do
something so extreme in one range of
motion oh man my hips do feel good
though I feel really flexy right
now and you know what just for
fun just to show that I can I guess I'll
stick my foot behind my
head this has gotten much easier over
time as
well partly because of that pigeon
stretch that I showed you earlier but
honestly this is a stretch undo
itself yeah so I think that concludes
the workout today I did pretty much two
sets of everything and if you were to
add that up two sets is equal to 1
minute in that stretched position
position and counting all the warmup
that I did probably an extra 30 seconds
in there or so I did
roughly 1 and 1/2 to 2 and 1/2 minutes
per per muscle group so that's inner
thighs and hamstrings and hip flexors uh
if I were to do this exact routine twice
a week that would be the minimum
requirement that I would need to start
gaining flexibility again so I'm going
to have to do this again later on in the
week to really make progress but if I
want to progress further I'm probably
going to have to do more than that so
I'll definitely be doing more but anyway
yeah stay flexy man the mile and a half
walk to the park always feels better
than the mile and a half walk back
home